Provide better documentation for Keptn integrations (#881)
keptn/keptn.github.io: content/docs/0.8.x/integrations/how_integrate/index.md

## General overview

In general, Keptn integration (also called Keptn services) integrate by receiving and sending events from and to the [Keptn control-plane](../../../concepts/architecture/). Once an integration is triggered, the integration (service) usually indicates its start and once completed, responds to the Keptn control-plane with a finished status. Some integrations such as notification (e.g., via Slack) might not want to indicate their progress, which is also possible. In the following, we will have a look at different use-cases for integrations and how they can be implemented.

{{< popup_image 
link="./assets/integration-sequence.png" 
caption="General execution sequence of Keptn integrations" 
width="700px">}} 

## Use Cases

### Testing tools

Integrating (load and performance) test tools such as [JMeter](https://github.com/keptn/keptn/tree/master/jmeter-service), [Neoload](https://github.com/keptn-contrib/neoload-service), [Artillery](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox/artillery-service), or [Locust](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox/locust-service) is a common use-case in Keptn. In this section, we'll learn what is needed to integrate such tools.

> Usually, a testing tool integration is getting triggered upon a `sh.keptn.event.test.triggered` event. This event will be sent by the Keptn control plane and the tool integration only has to listen for this type of event. In order to make sure that this event is sent by the Keptn control plane, a `test` task needs to be present in the [shipyard](../../manage/shipyard/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually, a testing tool integration is getting triggered upon a `sh.keptn.event.test.triggered` event. This event is sent by the Keptn control plane and the tool integration only has to listen for this type of event. In order to make sure that this event is sent by the Keptn control plane, a `test` task needs to be present in the [shipyard](../../manage/shipyard/).
```

**Example shipyard** with a test task:
```
apiVersion: spec.keptn.sh/0.2.2
kind: "Shipyard"
metadata:
  name: "test-shipyard"
spec:
  stages:
    - name: "test-automation"
      sequences:
      - name: "functionaltests"
        tasks: 
        - name: "test" # your integration gets triggered here
          properties:
            teststrategy: "functional"
        - name: "evaluation"
      - name: "performancetests"
        tasks: 
        - name: "test" # your integration gets triggered here
          properties:
            teststrategy: "performance"
        - name: "evaluation"
...
```

Please note that in general the task can be renamed, the important part is that both the event-type and the task name correlate for your integration.

Typically, test tools rely on some way of test definition files, such as a `*.jmx` file for JMeter or `locustfile.py` for Locust. These files have to be added to Keptn and will be managed by Keptn. 

> To add such a file, for example a `locustfile.py` it has to be added to Keptn, e.g., via the [keptn add-resource](../../reference/cli/commands/keptn_add-resource/) Keptn CLI command. Let's assume we have a project "sockshop" with a "carts" microservice and the two sequences mentioned in our shipyard, the following command will add the local resource `locustfile.py` to Keptn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Files can be added to Keptn via the [keptn add-resource](../../reference/cli/commands/keptn_add-resource/) Keptn CLI command. Let's assume we have a project "sockshop" with a "carts" microservice, the following command will add the local resource `locustfile.py` to Keptn in both the two sequences mentioned in our shipyard.
```

Depending on how your integration is built, this can be done either via [adding the subscription in the distributor](../custom_integration/#subscription-to-a-triggered-event) or by adding the subscription to the [job-executor definition](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox/job-executor-service#how).
Since the tests might run for some time, it is important that once the integration receives the `sh.keptn.event.test.triggered` event, it will response with a `sh.keptn.event.test.started` event, and once finished it sends a `sh.keptn.event.test.finished` event.

### Notification tools

Let's have a look at notification tool integrations such as Slack, or MS Team where you want to push (specific) events to a channel to notify members of it.

Usually, a notification tool reacts on a specific type of event or a set of events. The tool integration will subscribe these event types and then send a defined payload to the channels. Typically, there is no need to indicate that a notification integration starts and finishes the distribution of messages (i.e., no `*.started` or `*.finished` event has to be sent).

> One way to build an integration is to use a [Keptn-service template](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox?q=template&type=&language=&sort=). The events the integration should listen for [can be added as a subscription in the distributor](../custom_integration/#subscription-to-a-triggered-event)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to build an integration is to use a [Keptn-service template](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox?q=template&type=&language=&sort=). The events the integration should listen for [can be added as a subscription in the distributor](../custom_integration/#subscription-to-a-triggered-event).
```

### Monitoring/observability tools (SLI-providers)

> Keptn quality gates are defined by [SLOs and SLIs](../../../concepts/quality_gates/) and the data will be provided via SLI-providers. The job of an SLI provider is to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keptn quality gates are defined by [SLOs and SLIs](../../../concepts/quality_gates/) and the data will be provided via SLI-providers. The job of an SLI provider is to:
```

1. listen for a `sh.keptn.event.get-sli.triggered` event and 
2. respond with a `sh.keptn.event.get-sli.started` event once the retrieval of the data is started and 
3. with a `sh.keptn.event.get-sli.finished` event including the SLIs as the payload once the retrieval of the data is finished. 

Please have a look at the [Keptn service template](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox/keptn-service-template-go) that provides a stub about how to build your own SLI provider in the `eventhanders.go` file.

### Any other tool

The integration of tools with the Keptn control-plane is not limited to specific use-cases. Any tool can be integrated by interacting with the Keptn control plane via cloud events. 
As an inspiration, please have a look at the [Keptn sandbox repository](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox) that lists community contributions of all kind. A lot of them have been using the [Keptn service template](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox?q=template&type=&language=&sort=) as a starting point, however, please have a look in the next section on different ways how to integrate with Keptn.

## Integration options

### Service Templates

> The Keptn community currently provides two [Keptn service templates](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox?q=service-template&type=&language=&sort=).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Keptn community currently provides two [Keptn service templates](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox?q=service-template&type=&language=&sort=):

```

1. [Keptn service template written in Go](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox/keptn-service-template-go)

> 1. [Keptn service template written in Python](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox/keptn-service-template-python)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Keptn service template written in Python](https://github.com/keptn-sandbox/keptn-service-template-python)
```
